---
img: "125.webp"
---

# **September 7th, Stammtisch #125**


41pp
Icebreaker Question: Which letter of the alphabet are you?

**Gilbert**

https://autr.tv

- Collaborated to create an audiovisual device with Syntonie to re-scan analog TV using an industrial CCD camera, and used at Machina Bristronica 2023.
- Shows REPLICA theatre performance involving analog video synthesized images projected on stage, using OpenFrameworks and Web.
- Shows second REPLICA project involves captures 100s hours of performer training using stereoscopic cameras. No AI trained with the data, but app to explore data visually.
- Third project involves mixing Hydra and Tensorflow with Jitsi during the pandemic: Hydritsi. Built RPi devices and writing web based software.
- After those projects he wasn't feeling so good so he started cycling and working on latest web based visual synthsizer. Went on tour, produced visuals for ARPANET (shown Tresor), new music videos, artworks etc.

V1 web based visual synthesizer available at github.com/autr.

**D-DUST**

Outer-Act is an interactive street art project. Has a box with a beamer and some electronic gadgets. He wanted to creat a prank: surprise people on the streets to call their attention to diverse themes.
There are 3 characters: they are based on a drug dealer who doesn't sell drugs, a street sex worker with proxy talks about tech domination and a beggar who acts as a real estate broker trying to sell you a piece of the sidewalk.

The box has a projector, a Raspberry Pi, speakers, infrared camera, infrared light, and a power bank. The thing gets hot, so he had to add some fans.

The website tells many details about the making-of. Links:
    https://d-dust-art.webflow.io/
    https://www.instagram.com/d_dust_art/

The battery lasts about 90 to 120 minutes.
During the show he stays a bit away otherwise people get suspicious of him.
The stories displayed are linear (no branching).

Io
https://instagram.com/xn_ze_ro
Presents https://k0.games/g_o_a_l/, a web based game controlled with the WASD keys.
The game of afterlife which arrived on a dream during lockdown.
For a long time they created p5.js sketches that could be created in a few hours. That's the available energy after working in a programming job.

The game has different meaning for the colors red, green and blue.
A friend of theirs managed to reach the top 10 times.
Connected to Conway's game of life.

Inspired by low-res infinite canvases and necro-biome.
Up for talking to anyone who is interested in low-res / pixel based games.

**Claudine**

Talks about a project she developed during this summer. Depending on the time of the day, beautiful shadows got projected into her room, full of layers of tree leafs.
She wanted to recreate those shadows. She did study physics, so she researched the science behind those blurry shadows. Natural pinhole phenomenon. She built such a pinhole camera with a box, which was fun but didn't help with her project.
She shows images from her process. First time she showed the project was during the 48 hours Neukölln art event. Next version was presented at the School of Machines, Making and Make-Believe 10 year anniversary exhibition.

It's an on-going research and wants to still get closer to the poetry of 

== announcements ==

- There's a show tomorrow curated by Lucid Beaming. During the opening there will be real time generated noises. https://hilbertraum.org 19.00 to 22.00
- Today and tomorrow at Bethanien, there's a show. Mixing physical elements and screens. "Die Einsamkeit des Konsums" Studio 1.
- Tom: Oct 5th demo-scene party in Marzahn: Deadline. https://demoparty.berlin  no/

== break ==

**Abdo**

http://abd.ooo/fractals/
The Mandelbrot set. Fractals. He was fascinated by being able to zoom in forever due to its recursion. The web-based software he built allows exploring the colors of the rendered image. He likes that the algorithm is very simple, mostly repeating one line of code over and over again.

His software allows now only Mandelbrot, but others like the "Burning ship" and the Julia-set.

**Meredith Thomas & Martin**

https://panorama-museum.de/en/
Martin works in theaters as a director, they collaborated on theater pieces.
They got a commission 2.5 years ago in Southeast Germany. Long complicated project.
150m long painting in DDR times, depicting a peasants revolt in Münster at the times of Martin Luther. It includes about 3000 people.
In their project, the have multiple (12?) advertising screens presenting photographs of numerous local people. Written in openFrameworks.
In their piece the audience is invited to step on the stage and walk around and interact with the screens.
They first installed the screens on public spaces to interact with locals, but almost no one interacted, so they had to ask people one by one to "donate" their data. People were skeptical on that out-of-city area.
Everything in the piece is rendered live.
Their work will be probably played again in 2025.

**Cristoph**

Physicist, inventor, did biology. Later became a startup person. Then company got sold and now has time to experiment and play.

He's working on a parabolic microphone with a friend who built a 360 degree microphone with tens of microphones. He runs simulations in MATLAB and shows nice sound wave animations.

Another experiment relates to tinnitus treatment, involving electric shocks. Existing solutions are very expensive, so they want to build one on their own. The problem is to try volunteers who are not afraid of death. Currently this project is on pause, but he's open to continuing.

Idea: museum of magic. It would include a balancing cube. So far he has a spinning motor which produces nice tones. A powerful motor with low power consumption and all controllers included.

He got interested in China and all the stuff they sell. He got the motor at Aliexpress for about 6€. The website shows all kinds of details about the companies producing things (like how many people work there, what do they build, etc).
So he's spent hundreds of hours scraping that company data to produce a map of those companies. He went deep in rabbit holes.
https://github.com/CFretter
https://www.instagram.com/schlumpft

**Jakub**

https://fiala.space
First time at the meetup. He recently started working on this project, which will be developed in a residency. He likes to misuse existing technology.
For instance Google Street view. He worked at BBC where he had a project with a friend.
He works much with the web-audio API. So he wanted to add a sound layer to Google Street View. Then came up with making it a game engine. Inspiration: "Dear Esther" game. 
The game will probably be called "Via Gustavo" and it takes place in Chile on a road in the desert. The theme is to explore how people leave marks in the landscape.
He can place 3D objects into his world and embed html views (of web pages and youtube videos). You can collect items in the game, and they are shown in your inventory.
A gamepad can be used to control the game.

He noticed many shrines on those roads in Chile, for deceased people in car accidents, and has collected them.

**Daniel**

This is a birthday present for a friend.
They travelled together for about a year.
He made a website present with funny texts and offers a box to ask for photos of Dan, and it generates such photos using AI magic.
It uses https://fal.ai/flux -> Train a Flux LoRa.
